Make RoutingContext available during SecurityIdentity augmentation (#38266)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-customization.adoc

}
----

> The CDI request context activation shown in the example above wouldn't help you to access the `RoutingContext` when proactive authentication is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CDI request context activation shown in the example above does not help to access `RoutingContext` when the proactive authentication is enabled.
```

The following example illustrates how you can access the `RoutingContext` from the `SecurityIdentityAugmentor`:

[source,java]
----
package org.acme.security;

import java.util.Map;

import jakarta.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

import io.quarkus.security.identity.AuthenticationRequestContext;
import io.quarkus.security.identity.SecurityIdentity;
import io.quarkus.security.identity.SecurityIdentityAugmentor;
import io.quarkus.vertx.http.runtime.security.HttpSecurityUtils;
import io.smallrye.mutiny.Uni;
import io.vertx.ext.web.RoutingContext;

@ApplicationScoped
public class CustomSecurityIdentityAugmentor implements SecurityIdentityAugmentor {

    @Override
    public Uni<SecurityIdentity> augment(SecurityIdentity identity, AuthenticationRequestContext context,
            Map<String, Object> attributes) {
        RoutingContext routingContext = HttpSecurityUtils.getRoutingContextAttribute(attributes);
        if (routingContext != null) {

>             // here you augment SecurityIdentity based on RoutingContext

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            // Augment SecurityIdentity using RoutingContext
```

        } else {
            return augment(identity, context); <1>
        }
    }

    ...
}
----

> <1> The `RoutingContext` will not be available when the `SecurityIdentity` is augmented after HTTP request has completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> `RoutingContext` is not available when the `SecurityIdentity` is augmented after HTTP request has completed.
```

I recall the Doc team replacing `will` with `is`...

> NOTE: If you implemented your own `HttpAuthenticationMechanism`, you need to add the `RoutingContext` to authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you implemented a custom `HttpAuthenticationMechanism`, then you need to add the `RoutingContext` to authentication
```

> request attributes with the `io.quarkus.vertx.http.runtime.security.HttpSecurityUtils.setRoutingContextAttribute` method yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
request attributes with the `io.quarkus.vertx.http.runtime.security.HttpSecurityUtils.setRoutingContextAttribute` method call.
```
